README.md, before:

# Outreachy-Wikidata-project.
This is the python code for task 2 under the project: What's in a name? Automatically identifying first and last author names for Wikicite and Wikidata.

# DESCRIPTION OF TASK.
This is the second task for T300207, What's in a name? Automatically identifying first and last author names for Wikicite and Wikidata, aimed at getting you familiar with Pywikibot.

You should register a Wikimedia account if you don't already have one. You can do so at https://www.wikidata.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount
You should download and install Python 3 and pywikibot - see instructions at https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/Installation . You will need to set up a user configuration file, and make sure you can log in. Set 'wikipedia' as the base family, and then manually add usernames['wikidata']['wikidata'] = u'Your username' into the generated user-config.py file. If you want, you can set a bot password (see https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/BotPasswords ) and use that - or use your normal Wikimedia login information.
Set up a script that will connect to Wikidata, load the 'Outreachy_1' page that you created in the previous task, and print it out.
Try adding 'Hello' to the end of the page you just loaded, and save it back.
Load a Wikidata item (use 'Q4115189' to start with - it is the sandbox), and print out information from it. You can then try loading the items for the scientific articles you looked at in the first task. You should try to print out all of the author information that is available in the item (at least the names, ideally also the qualifiers).
Bonus: automatically follow links to items about the authors, and print out their name information as well (e.g., given/family names).

Save your code to a repository, or create a page like https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/User:Mike_Peel/Outreachy_2 (under your username)

Once you are happy, send me a link to your page (by email, on my talk page, or replying to this ticket as you prefer). Make sure to also register it as a contribution on the Outreachy website ( https://www.outreachy.org/outreachy-may-2022-internship-round/communities/wikimedia/whats-in-a-name-automatically-identifying-first-an/contributions/ )!

Hints:

You can find examples in https://github.com/mpeel/wikicode/blob/master/example.py
And more at https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/Create_your_own_script
And https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/Wikidata

Commit message:

Final Outreachy task matching up Wikidata and RIS citation files.

README.md, after:

# Outreachy-Wikidata-project.
This is the python code for task 2 and task 3 under the project: What's in a name? Automatically identifying first and last author names for Wikicite and Wikidata.

# TASK 2.
## DESCRIPTION OF TASK.
This is the second task for T300207, What's in a name? Automatically identifying first and last author names for Wikicite and Wikidata, aimed at getting you familiar with Pywikibot.

You should register a Wikimedia account if you don't already have one. You can do so at https://www.wikidata.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount
You should download and install Python 3 and pywikibot - see instructions at https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/Installation . You will need to set up a user configuration file, and make sure you can log in. Set 'wikipedia' as the base family, and then manually add usernames['wikidata']['wikidata'] = u'Your username' into the generated user-config.py file. If you want, you can set a bot password (see https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/BotPasswords ) and use that - or use your normal Wikimedia login information.
Set up a script that will connect to Wikidata, load the 'Outreachy_1' page that you created in the previous task, and print it out.
Try adding 'Hello' to the end of the page you just loaded, and save it back.
Load a Wikidata item (use 'Q4115189' to start with - it is the sandbox), and print out information from it. You can then try loading the items for the scientific articles you looked at in the first task. You should try to print out all of the author information that is available in the item (at least the names, ideally also the qualifiers).
Bonus: automatically follow links to items about the authors, and print out their name information as well (e.g., given/family names).

Save your code to a repository, or create a page like https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/User:Mike_Peel/Outreachy_2 (under your username)

Once you are happy, send me a link to your page (by email, on my talk page, or replying to this ticket as you prefer). Make sure to also register it as a contribution on the Outreachy website ( https://www.outreachy.org/outreachy-may-2022-internship-round/communities/wikimedia/whats-in-a-name-automatically-identifying-first-an/contributions/ )!

Hints:

You can find examples in https://github.com/mpeel/wikicode/blob/master/example.py
And more at https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/Create_your_own_script
And https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/Wikidata

# Task 3
## DESCRIPTION OF TASK.

This is the third task for T300207, What's in a name? Automatically identifying first and last author names for Wikicite and Wikidata, aimed at getting you familiar with structured citations.

1. Ask @Mike_Peel and @Pigsonthewing for an item about a scientific article to work on. This may be the same as one you've worked on in the previous tasks, or may be a different one. You can request an item on this task page, and one of us will reply.
2. Load the item into the code you wrote for Task 2, and print out the author information from it
3. The item will also have a link to the journal, where bibtex or RIS information will be available about the citation. Load this in to your code (use https://docs.python.org/3/howto/urllib2.html ) and print out the author information it contains.
4. Try to match up the authors in the Wikidata item with those in the Bibtex or RIS file, and print the information about each author from both sources together.
5. Identify which is the first part of the author citation, and which is the last part. If you can, write these into the Wikidata item, using the P9687 and P9688 properties ('author first names' and 'author last names' respectively).

Save your code to a repository, or create a page like https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/User:Mike_Peel/Outreachy_3 (under your username)

Once you are happy, send me a link to your page (by email, on my talk page, or replying to this ticket as you prefer). Make sure to also register it as a contribution on the Outreachy website ( https://www.outreachy.org/outreachy-may-2022-internship-round/communities/wikimedia/whats-in-a-name-automatically-identifying-first-an/contributions/ )!

Hints:

- You can find examples in https://github.com/mpeel/wikicode/blob/master/example.py
- And more at https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikibot/Create_your_own_script
